update: ksp-command-line.md (#5647)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/ksp/ksp-command-line.md

> [//]: # (title: Running KSP from command line)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[//]: # (title: Running KSP from the command line)
```
Nitpick. Reads more naturally.

Most projects use KSP through the Gradle plugin, which runs KSP automatically during compilation. Command-line 

> invocation is primarily intended for integration with other build systems, processor development, testing and debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most projects use KSP through the Gradle plugin, which runs KSP automatically during compilation. You can use
KSP from the command line but it's normally only used when you're integrating with other build systems, developing processors, testing, or debugging.
```
To make the text active.

KSP is a JVM application. When running KSP from the command line, use the `java` command to launch the KSP 

> entry point and provide the required classpath and arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since KSP is a JVM application, use the `java` command to launch KSP from the command line.
Make sure to provide the classpath and any necessary arguments:

```
To connect the sentences a little better. Plus a newline between the text and code sample.

> ```Bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

java -cp <classpath> <mainclass> <options> <processor>
```

Where:

* `<classpath>` contains the KSP runtime JARs and their dependencies.

* `<mainclass>` is one of the platform-specific KSP entry points.

* `<options>` are the command-line options for KSP.

> * `<processor>` specifies the path to the processor JAR.

Reviewer: Can you convert this into a table? I think it would be easier to read. | Argument | Description |

## Classpath

> Download `artifacts.zip` from the [KSP release page](https://github.com/google/ksp/releases/tag/%kspVersion%). The 

Reviewer: Can you explain briefly why these artifacts and runtime dependencies need to be on the classpath?
If it's too complicated, you can also try: "For KSP to run successfully, make sure to add the following KSP JAR files and runtime dependencies to the classpath:"

archive contains the required KSP JAR files:

* `symbol-processing-aa-%kspVersion%.jar`

* `symbol-processing-common-deps-%kspVersion%.jar`

* `symbol-processing-api-%kspVersion%.jar`

You must also include the following runtime dependencies:

* `kotlin-stdlib-%kotlinVersion%.jar`, available from the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlin/kotlin-stdlib)

* `kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm-%coroutinesVersion%.jar`, available from the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlinx/kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm)

## Mainclass

> KSP provides the following platform-specific entry points:

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence explaining the purpose of the mainclass argument?

> * `KSPJvmMain`

Reviewer: It might seem obvious, but can you turn this into a table and explain which platforms can be used in for each option? And is it essential that you use the FQN?

* `KSPJsMain`

* `KSPNativeMain`

* `KSPCommonMain`

> The following example runs KSP for a JVM target by using KSPJvmMain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example runs KSP for a JVM target by using `KSPJvmMain`:
```

> ```Bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

java -cp \
symbol-processing-aa-%kspVersion%.jar:symbol-processing-common-deps-%kspVersion%.jar:symbol-processing-api-%kspVersion%.jar:kotlin-stdlib-2.3.20.jar:kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm-1.10.2.jar \
com.google.devtools.ksp.cmdline.KSPJvmMain \
-language-version=2.0 \
-api-version=2.0 \
-jvm-target=11 \
-module-name=main \
-source-roots=project_dir/src/kotlin/main \
-project-base-dir=project_dir/ \
-output-base-dir=project_dir/build/ \
-caches-dir=project_dir/build/caches/ \
-class-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/classes \
-kotlin-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/kotlin/ \
-java-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/java/ \
-resource-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/res/ \
path/to/processor.jar
```

> ## Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Options
```

> A full list of options can be obtained with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see the full list of options, run the following command:
```
To make it active.

> ```Bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

java -cp <classpath> <mainclass> -h
```

### Required options

| Option                     | Description                                                                                 |
|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-language-version=String` | Specifies the Kotlin language version used in the project.                                  |

> | `-api-version=String`      | Specifies the Kotlin API version.                                                           |

Reviewer 2: Should this maybe link to the Kotlin documentation? What do you think?

> | `-language-version=String` | Specifies the [Kotlin language version](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/compiler-reference.html#language-version-version) used in the project. |

Reviewer: There's a lot of "specifies" in this table. Can you simplify the descriptions to concise noun phrases instead? For example, "The Kotlin language version used in the project."

> | `-language-version=String` | Specifies the [Kotlin language version](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/compiler-reference.html#language-version-version) used in the project. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-language-version=string` | Specifies the [Kotlin language version](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/compiler-reference.html#language-version-version) used in the project. |
```
Can you make all strings and files lowercase? Then they won't be mistaken for some kind of Kotlin type.

| `-caches-dir=File`         | Specifies the directory for KSP caches.                                                                                                    |
| `-java-output-dir=File`    | Specifies the directory for generated Java files.                                                                                          |
| `-class-output-dir=File`   | Specifies the directory for generated class files.                                                                                         |
| `-kotlin-output-dir=File`  | Specifies the directory for generated Kotlin files.                                                                                        |
| `-resource-output-dir=File`| Specifies the directory for generated resources.                                                                                           |
| `<processor>`              | Specifies the processor classpath.                                                                                                         |

> ### Other notable options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other useful options
```
Just sounds a bit more natural!

* `-libraries=File`: Specifies the classpath used to resolve dependencies referenced by the source files. This is 
typically the module's compile classpath.

* `-jdk-home=File`: Specifies the JDK home directory. Use this option when the processor resolves Java symbols and 
requires access to the Java standard library.

* `-friends=File`: Specifies the classpath of the current module's friend modules. This is typically the module's friend 
classpath. For more information, see [Friend modules](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlin-gradle-plugin/kotlin-gradle-plugin-api/org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks/-base-kotlin-compile/friend-paths.html).

> ### JVM parameters

Reviewer: Since there is only one entry, can it be included in the previous section?

Author: Not quite, as the options above are passed to KSP while this one is passed to JVM. But I can make it a note and explain this

[//]: # (title: Running KSP from the command line)

Most projects use KSP through the Gradle plugin, which runs KSP automatically during compilation. You can use
KSP from the command line but it's normally only used when you're integrating with other build systems, developing 
processors, testing, or debugging.

Since KSP is a JVM application, use the `java` command to launch KSP from the command line.

> Make sure to provide the classpath and any necessary arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the classpath and any necessary arguments:
```
Let's make it imperative!

```bash
java -cp <classpath> <mainclass> <options> <processor>
```

Where:

| Argument      | Description                                    |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `<classpath>` | KSP runtime JARs and their dependencies.       |
| `<mainclass>` | One of the platform-specific KSP entry points. |
| `<options>`   | Command-line options for KSP.                  |
| `<processor>` | Path to the processor JAR.                     |

## Classpath

> Unlike the Gradle plugin, the `java` command does not resolve dependencies automatically. You must provide the KSP 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the Gradle plugin, the `java` command doesn't resolve dependencies automatically. You must provide the KSP 
```

runtime JARs and their dependencies on the classpath.

Download `artifacts.zip` from the [KSP release page](https://github.com/google/ksp/releases/tag/%kspVersion%). The archive contains the required KSP JAR files:

* `symbol-processing-aa-%kspVersion%.jar`

* `symbol-processing-common-deps-%kspVersion%.jar`

* `symbol-processing-api-%kspVersion%.jar`

> You must also include the following runtime dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must also include the following runtime dependencies from the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlin/kotlin-stdlib):
```
Since both bullets have the same info about the Maven repo, why not put it at the beginning instead to reduce duplicate text?

* `kotlin-stdlib-%kotlinVersion%.jar`, available from the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlin/kotlin-stdlib)

* `kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm-%coroutinesVersion%.jar`, available from the [Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlinx/kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm)

> ## Mainclass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Main class
```

Because KSP is a JVM application, you must specify the main class to launch. KSP provides a different entry point for 
each supported platform:

> | Entrypoint      | Platforms                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Entry point      | Platforms                                                     |
```

|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `KSPJvmMain`    | JVM and Android                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `KSPJvmMain`    | Kotlin/JVM and Android                                               |
```

| `KSPJsMain`     | Kotlin/JS                                                     |

> | `KSPNativeMain` | Kotlin/Native targets, such as iOS, macOS, Linux, and Windows |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `KSPNativeMain` | Kotlin/Native targets, such as iOS, macOS, Linux, and Windows. |
```

| `KSPCommonMain` | Common compilations in Kotlin Multiplatform projects          |

When launching KSP with `java`, specify the fully qualified class name. For example:

```bash
java -cp <classpath> com.google.devtools.ksp.cmdline.KSPJvmMain <options> <processor>
```

> The following example runs KSP for a JVM target by using `KSPJvmMain`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses `KSPJvmMain` to run KSP for a JVM target:
```
This change avoids the "by using" construction to make it a little more direct :)

```bash
java -cp \
symbol-processing-aa-%kspVersion%.jar:symbol-processing-common-deps-%kspVersion%.jar:symbol-processing-api-%kspVersion%.jar:kotlin-stdlib-2.3.20.jar:kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm-1.10.2.jar \
com.google.devtools.ksp.cmdline.KSPJvmMain \
-language-version=2.0 \
-api-version=2.0 \
-jvm-target=11 \
-module-name=main \
-source-roots=project_dir/src/kotlin/main \
-project-base-dir=project_dir/ \
-output-base-dir=project_dir/build/ \
-caches-dir=project_dir/build/caches/ \
-class-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/classes \
-kotlin-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/kotlin/ \
-java-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/java/ \
-resource-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/res/ \
path/to/processor.jar
```

## Options

To see the full list of options, run the following command:

```bash
java -cp <classpath> <mainclass> -h
```

> ### Required KSP options

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence explaining that all of these KSP options need to be configured on the command line for KSP to run successfully?

| Option                        | Description                                                                                                                          |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-language-version=<version>` | The [Kotlin language version](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/compiler-reference.html#language-version-version) used in the project.     |

> | `-api-version=<version>`      | The [Kotlin API version](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/compiler-reference.html#api-version-version).                               git |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-api-version=<version>`      | The [Kotlin API version](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/compiler-reference.html#api-version-version).                            |
```

| `-caches-dir=<path>`          | The directory for KSP caches.                                                                                                        |
| `-java-output-dir=<path>`     | The directory for generated Java files.                                                                                              |
| `-class-output-dir=<path>`    | The directory for generated class files.                                                                                             |
| `-kotlin-output-dir=<path>`   | The directory for generated Kotlin files.                                                                                            |
| `-resource-output-dir=<path>` | The directory for generated resources.                                                                                               |
| `<processor>`                 | The processor classpath.                                                                                                             |

### Other useful options

> * `-libraries=File`: Specifies the classpath used to resolve dependencies referenced by the source files. This is 

Reviewer: Can you align the options in this section like the entries in the table above? So `File` becomes `<path>`.

> typically the module's compile classpath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `-libraries=File`: The classpath used to resolve dependencies referenced by the source files. Typically the module's compile classpath.
```
To align with the table above (removing Specifies).

> * `-jdk-home=File`: Specifies the JDK home directory. Use this option when the processor resolves Java symbols and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `-jdk-home=File`: The JDK home directory. Use when the processor resolves Java symbols and 
```
To align with the table above (removing Specifies).

requires access to the Java standard library.

> * `-friends=File`: Specifies the classpath of the current module's friend modules. This is typically the module's friend 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `-friends=File`: The classpath of the current module's friend modules. This is typically the module's friend 
```
To align with the table above (removing Specifies).

classpath. For more information, see [Friend modules](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlin-gradle-plugin/kotlin-gradle-plugin-api/org.jetbrains.kotlin.gradle.tasks/-base-kotlin-compile/friend-paths.html).

> KSP also supports the following JVM system property:
> * `-Dksp.logging`: Specifies the logging level. Valid values are `error`, `warn` or `warning`, `info`, and `debug`. The 

> default value is `warn`. Unsupported values are treated as `warn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> KSP also supports the `-Dksp.logging` JVM system property, which sets the logging level. Valid values are `error`, `warn` or `warning`, `info`, and `debug`. The 
default value is `warn`. KSP treats unsupported values as `warn`.
```

[//]: # (title: Running KSP from the command line)

Most projects use KSP through the Gradle plugin, which runs KSP automatically during compilation. You can use
KSP from the command line but it's normally only used when you're integrating with other build systems, developing 
processors, testing, or debugging.

Since KSP is a JVM application, use the `java` command to launch KSP from the command line.
Provide the classpath and any necessary arguments:

```bash
java -cp <classpath> <mainclass> <options> <processor>
```

> Where:

Reviewer 3: I think it is natural to have a table right after the code block, without “Where:”.

| Argument      | Description                                    |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------|

> | `<classpath>` | KSP runtime JARs and their dependencies.       |

Reviewer 3: Path to ... ? 🤔 Like for <processor>? Or it is not a path?

| `<mainclass>` | One of the platform-specific KSP entry points. |
| `<options>`   | Command-line options for KSP.                  |
| `<processor>` | Path to the processor JAR.                     |

## Classpath

Unlike the Gradle plugin, the `java` command doesn't resolve dependencies automatically. You must provide the KSP 
runtime JARs and their dependencies on the classpath.

Download `artifacts.zip` from the [KSP release page](https://github.com/google/ksp/releases/tag/%kspVersion%). The archive contains the required KSP JAR files:

* `symbol-processing-aa-%kspVersion%.jar`

* `symbol-processing-common-deps-%kspVersion%.jar`

* `symbol-processing-api-%kspVersion%.jar`

You must also include the following runtime dependencies from the Maven Repository:

* [`kotlin-stdlib-%kotlinVersion%.jar`](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlin/kotlin-stdlib)

* [`kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm-%coroutinesVersion%.jar`](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.jetbrains.kotlinx/kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| `KSPNativeMain` | Kotlin/Native targets, such as iOS, macOS, Linux, and Windows. |
| `KSPCommonMain` | Common compilations in Kotlin Multiplatform projects.          |

When launching KSP with `java`, specify the fully qualified class name. For example:

```bash
java -cp <classpath> com.google.devtools.ksp.cmdline.KSPJvmMain <options> <processor>
```

The following example uses `KSPJvmMain` to run KSP for a JVM target:

```bash
java -cp \
symbol-processing-aa-%kspVersion%.jar:symbol-processing-common-deps-%kspVersion%.jar:symbol-processing-api-%kspVersion%.jar:kotlin-stdlib-2.3.20.jar:kotlinx-coroutines-core-jvm-1.10.2.jar \
com.google.devtools.ksp.cmdline.KSPJvmMain \
-language-version=2.0 \
-api-version=2.0 \
-jvm-target=11 \
-module-name=main \
-source-roots=project_dir/src/kotlin/main \
-project-base-dir=project_dir/ \
-output-base-dir=project_dir/build/ \
-caches-dir=project_dir/build/caches/ \
-class-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/classes \
-kotlin-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/kotlin/ \
-java-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/java/ \
-resource-output-dir=project_dir/build/out/main/res/ \
path/to/processor.jar
```

## Options

> 

Reviewer 3: Could you briefly explain why these options might be needed before asking users to run the command?

Reviewer 3: Or is is unnecessary?

Author: What do you think of moving things around like this? I elimiated one of the subtitles as well, and moved the command for all the options to the bottom.
